General notes for developers working on NUnitLite:

1. NUnitLite is built for .NET 1.1, 2.0, 3.5 and 4.0, .NET
CF 2.0 and 3.5 and Silverlight 3.0, 4.0 and 5.0. The VS 2010 
project builds .NET 2.0, 3.5 and 4.0 aswell as the Silverlight
builds. The VS2012 project builds .NET 2.0, 3.5, 4.0 and 4.5
and Silverlight 4.0 and 5.0. There are also VS 2008 projects
project for testing under CF 2.0 and 3.5. The NAnt script
builds all the targets, provided you have them installed.
For example, use 'nant net-1.1 build' or 'nant build-all'.

2. Avoid use of generics, lambdas, etc and use conditional
compilation where they are necessary. It's usually simpler 
to use .NET 1.x compatible code in the framework itself.
In the tests, it's necessary to use conditional compilation
in order to make sure that things like lambdas work. The
next release of NUnitLite will only support .NET 2.0 and
higher, making things somewhat easier.

3. It may seem strange to find conditional code contained in
these projects based on the definition of NUNITLITE. This is
done to keep the code consistent with NUnit 3.0, which uses
the same codebase for both NUnit and NUnitLite.

4. NUnitLite's runner, being in the same assembly with the
framework, is able to access internal definitions, which
are not available to the NUnit runner. For example, the
NUnitLite runner uses all the filter types directly, while
NUnit's console runner must construct an XML representation
of the filters to pass to the framework.

