.TH "al" 1
.SH NAME
al, al2 \- Mono Assembly Linker
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B al [option] [source-files]
.SH DESCRIPTION
AL is the Mono assembly linker. 
.PP
This linker is used to put together assemblies from a collection of
modules (.netmodule files), assembly manifest files and resources.
.PP
Do not confuse this with the 
.B monolinker,
which is a tool to reduce the size of assemblies based on the code
used. 
.PP
Use al for processing 1.0 assemblies, use al2 to process 2.0 assemblies.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B @<filename>
Read response file for more options.
.TP
.B -algid:<id>
Algorithm used to hash files. The <id> must be specified in hexadecimal.
.TP
.B -base:<addr> | -baseaddress:<addr>
Base address for the library. THIS FEATURE ISN'T IMPLEMENTED.
.TP
.B -bugreport:<filename>
Create a 'Bug Report' file. THIS FEATURE ISN'T IMPLEMENTED.
.TP
.B -comp:<text> | -company:<text>
This inserts the company name into the assembly metadata.
This is equivalent to adding the [AssemblyCompany ("<text>")] attribute
into C# source code.
.TP
.B -config:<text> | -configuration:<text>
This inserts the configuration string into the assembly metadata.
This is equivalent to adding the [AssemblyConfiguration ("<text>")] 
attribute into C# source code.
.TP
.B -copy:<text> | -copyright:<text>
This inserts the copyright message into the assembly metadata.
This is equivalent to adding the [AssemblyCopyright ("<text>")] 
attribute into C# source code.
.TP
.B -c:<text> | -culture:<text>
This inserts the supported culture into the assembly metadata.
This is equivalent to adding the [AssemblyCulture ("<text>")] 
attribute into C# source code.
.TP
.B -delay | -delay+ | -delaysign | -delaysign+
The generated assembly will be delay signed. 
This is equivalent to adding the [AssemblyDelaySignAttribute (true)] 
attribute into C# source code.
.TP
.B -delay- | -delaysign-
The generated assembly will be fully signed (i.e. not delay signed).
This is the default option when signing (-keyfile or -keyname).
.TP
.B -descr:<text> | -description:<text>
This inserts a description of the assembly into the assembly metadata.
This is equivalent to adding the [AssemblyDescription ("<text>")] 
attribute into C# source code.
.TP
.B -e:<filename> | -evidence:<filename>
This embed into the assembly the specified file as assembly security
evidences.
.TP
.B -fileversion:<version>
Optional Win32 version. This overrides the normal assembly version.
.TP
.B -flags:<flags>
Assembly flags. The <flags> must be specified in hexadecimal.
.TP
.B -fullpaths
Display files using fully-qualified filenames.
.TP
.B -keyf:<filename> | -keyfile:<filename>
Strongname (sign) the output assembly using the key pair present in 
the specified strong name key file (snk). A full key pair is required
unless the delay signing option is also specified (-delay+).
This is equivalent to adding the [AssemblyKeyFile ("<text>")] 
attribute into C# source code.
.TP
.B -keyn:<text> | -keyname:<text>
Strongname (sign) the output assembly using the key pair present in 
the specified container. Delay signing isn't supported when using key
containers.
This is equivalent to adding the [AssemblyKeyName ("<text>")] 
attribute into C# source code.
.TP
.B -main:<method>
Specifies the method name of the assembly entry point.
.TP
.B -nologo
Suppress the startup banner and copyright message.
.TP
.B -out:<filename>
Output file name for the assembly manifest.
.TP
.B -prod:<text> | product:<text>
This inserts the product name into the assembly metadata.
This is equivalent to adding the [AssemblyProduct ("<text>")] 
attribute into C# source code.
.TP
.B -productv[ersion]:<text>
This inserts the product version into the assembly metadata.
This is equivalent to adding the [AssemblyInformationalVersion ("<text>")] 
attribute into C# source code.
.TP
.B -t[arget]:<target> | -target=<target>
Valid <target>s are:
.B lib | library
to create a library (.dll),
.B exe
to create a console executable (.exe), and
.B win | winexe
to create a Windows executable (.exe).
.TP
.B -template:<filename>
Specifies an assembly to get default options from.
.TP
.B -title:<text>
This inserts an assembly title into the assembly metadata.
This is equivalent to adding the [AssemblyTitle ("<text>")] 
attribute into C# source code.
.TP
.B -trade:<text> | -trademark:<text>
This inserts a trademark message into the assembly metadata.
This is equivalent to adding the [AssemblyTrademark ("<text>")] 
attribute into C# source code.
.TP
.B -v:<version> | -version:<version>
This inserts the assembly version into the assembly metadata. You can
use * to auto-generate remaining numbers.
This is equivalent to adding the [AssemblyVersion ("<text>")] 
attribute into C# source code.
.TP
.B -win32icon:<filename>
Use this icon for the output.
.TP
.B -win32res:<filename>
Specifies the Win32 resource file.
.TP
.B -? | -help
Display information about AL
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
sn(1), monolinker(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2005 Novell, Inc (http://www.novell.com)
.SH MAILING LISTS
Visit http://lists.ximian.com/mailman/listinfo/mono-devel-list for details.
.SH WEB SITE
Visit: http://www.mono-project.com for details
