.\" 
.\" crlupdate manual page.
.\" 
.\" Author:
.\"   Sebastien Pouliot  <sebastien@ximian.com>
.\" 
.\" Copyright (C) 2011 Novell, Inc (http://www.novell.com)
.\"
.TH Mono "crlupdate"
.SH NAME
crlupdate \- Mono Certficate Revocation List Downloader and Updater
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B crlupdate [-m] [-v] [-f]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This tool allows the download of new, or update of existing, Certficate 
Revocation List (CRL) associated with the certificates present in the 
user (default) or machine stores. The CRL present in the stores are used
to determine the validity of unexpired, trusted X.509 certificates.
To ensure CRL are always fresh consider automating the updates using the
\fIat\fR (or similar) command(s).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I "-m"
Update CRL associated with certificates in the machine store. By default
the tool works on the user store.
.TP
.I "-v"
Verbose mode. Display extra information while downloading and updating
the CRL.
.TP
.I "-f"
Force the download of all CRL even if they are not normally due to be 
updated (i.e. nextUpdate is still in the future).

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B mono crlupdate.exe
Download (if missing) or update (if existing and past due date) all CRL
associated with certificates present in user store.
.TP
.B mono crlupdate.exe -f -m
Force the download of every CRL associated with certificates present in
the machine store. Note that the user running this needs read/write 
access to the machine store or update will not occur.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Sebastien Pouliot
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2011 Novell.
.SH MAILING LISTS
Visit http://lists.ximian.com/mailman/listinfo/mono-list for details.
.SH WEB SITE
Visit http://www.mono-project.com for details
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR certmgr(1), at(1)
