.\"
.\" disco manual page.
.\" (C) 2003 Novell, Inc.
.\" Author:
.\"   Lluis Sanchez Gual (lluis@ximian.com)
.\"
.TH disco 1
.SH NAME
disco \- Mono's Web Service Discovery Tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B disco
[options] url
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I disco
is a tool for discovering web services and for retireving the documents that
describe those services.
.PP
.I url
is the location of a DISCO document, which includes a list of WSDL documents, 
XML schemas and references to other DISCO documents.
.PP
.I disco
downloads the DISCO document and all referenced documents (unless
the
.I "-nosave"
option is specified), and saves them to disk.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are available:
.TP
.I "-nologo"
Suppress the startup logo.
.TP
.I "-nosave"
Do not save the discovered documents to disk. The default is to save the documents.
.TP
.I "-o:directory", "-out:directory"
The directory where to save the discovered documents. 
By default, documents are saved in the current directory.
.TP
.I "-u:username", "-user:username"
The user name to use when connecting to the server.
.TP
.I "-p:password", "-password:password"
The password to use when connecting to the server.
.TP
.I "-d:domain", "-domain:domain"
The domain to use when connecting to the server.
.TP
.I "-proxy:url"
The url of the proxy server to use for http requests.
.TP
.I "-proxyusername:username"
The user name to use when connecting to the proxy.
.TP
.I "-proxypassword:password"
The password to use when connecting to the proxy.
.TP
.I "-proxydomain:domain"
The domain to use when connecting to the proxy.
.SH AUTHORS
Lluis Sanchez Gual (lluis@ximian.com)
.PP
.SH LICENSE
disco is released under the terms of the GNU GPL.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
wsdl(1), soapsuds(1), mono(1), mcs(1)
