.\" 
.\" httpcfg manual page.
.\" Copyright 2006 Novell
.\" Author:
.\"   Miguel de Icaza (miguel@novell.com)
.\"
.TH Mono "httpcfg"
.SH NAME
httpcfg \- Mono Certificate Management for HttpListener
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B httpcfg [options] certificate
.SH DESCRIPTION
This tool is used to manage the certificates used by the HttpListener
embeddable server class when the HttpListener is configured as an
HTTPS server instead of an HTTP server.   
.PP
You must select one of the possible actions: add, delete or list.
.PP
When adding a certificate (-add), you must provide the following
information: a certificate (with the -cert flag) a Private Key file
(with the -pvk argument, the filename is typically "key") and a port
number (with the -port flag).
.PP
When deleting a certificate (-del or -delete) you need to provide the
port number.
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP
.I "-add"
Adds a new certificate/private key combination for being used at a
given port by the HttpListener API.
.TP
.I "-del," "-delete"
Deletes the certificates associated for the port specified (must be
specified separatedly).
.TP
.I "-list"
List all known certificates. 
.TP
.I "-port PORT"
Specifies the port to add certificates to, or remove certificates
from. 
.TP
.I "-pvk FILE"
Specifies the Private Key file.  
.TP
.I "-cert CERT"
Specifies the certificate file to use.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
httpcfg -add -port 8081 -pvk myfile.pvk -cert MyCert
.fi
.PP
For more details on creating the certificate file and the private key,
see the following web page:
.PP
http://www.mono-project.com/docs/web/using-clientcertificates-with-xsp/
.SH FILES
The certificates are stored in the ~/.mono/httplistener directory
.SH AUTHOR
.B httpcfg
was written by Gonzalo Paniagua.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2006 Novell. 
.SH MAILING LISTS
Visit http://lists.ximian.com/mailman/listinfo/mono-devel-list for details.
.SH WEB SITE
Visit http://www.mono-project.com for details
.SH SEE ALSO
.B makecert(1), signcode(1), cert2spc(1)
.PP
The private key format:
.nf
http://www.drh-consultancy.demon.co.uk/pvk.html
.fi
