.TH "ilasm" 1
.SH NAME
ilasm, ilasm2 \- Mono IL assembler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ilasm
[option] [source-files]
.PP
.B ilasm2
[option] [source-files]
.SH DESCRIPTION
ilasm is the Mono ILAsm assembler.  You can pass one or more options to
drive the compiler, and a set of source files.  
.PP
Use \fIilasm\fR to generate 1.0 assemblies and use \fIilasm2\fR to
assemble programs that use the 2.0 features (generics).
.PP
The Mono ILAsm assembler accepts options starting with / or - for mosted 
options. 
.PP
The Mono ILAsm assembler generates images (.exe and .dll files) that contain
CIL byte code that can be executed by any system that implemented a Common
Language Infrastructure virtual machine. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \//output:<file_name>
Specify the output file name.
.TP
.B \//exe 
Generate an exe
.TP
.B \//dll
Generate a library
.TP
.B \//scan_only
Just scan the IL code and display tokens.
.TP
.B \//show_tokens
Show tokens as they are parsed.
.TP
.B \//show_method_def 
Display method information when a method is defined.
.TP
.B \//show_method_ref
Display method information when a method is referenced
.TP
.B \//key:KEYFILE
Strongname (sign) the output assembly using the key pair present in 
the specified strong name key file (snk). A full key pair is required
(i.e. delay signing is done using a .publickey directive in the sources).
.TP
.B \//key:@CONTAINER
Strongname (sign) the output assembly using the key pair present in 
the specified container.
.TP
.B \--about
Display information about ilasm
.TP
.B \--version
Display ilasm version
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mono(1), mcs(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2004, 2007 Novell, Inc (http://www.novell.com)
.SH MAILING LISTS
Visit http://lists.ximian.com/mailman/listinfo/mono-devel-list for details.
.SH WEB SITE
Visit: http://www.mono-project.com for details

