..\" 
.\" macpack manual page.
.\" (C) 2004 Geoff Norton
.\" Author:
.\"   Geoff Norton (gnorton@customerdna.com)
.\"
.de Sp \" Vertical space (when we can't use .PP)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.TH Mono "macpack"
.SH NAME
macpack \- Macintosh OS X Packager for managed gui assemblies
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B macpack [options] assembly
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fImacpack\fP is a tool used to package managed assemblies (like
System.Windows.Forms or Cocoa#) that require gui availability for deployment
on Mac OS X.
.PP
macpack will prepare a OS X compatible bundle from the provided assembly 
and resources.  The bundle will include the specified assembly as well
as any of the provided resources (specified with the -resource: switch).
.PP
Developers can specify the kind of application to produce using the
-mode: argument.  This controls how the environment in the Mono class
libraries is setup.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.I "-a assembly"
.Sp
This option tells macpack where the managed assembly that you
want to bundle resides.  This option is also used to point to the shell
script to launch in the case of a X11/Gtk# application.
.Sp
This is the same as just passing the assembly as an argument. 
.Sp
.I "-m [winforms,x11,console,cocoa]"
or
.I "-mode:[winforms,x11,console,cocoa]"
.Sp
A value indicating the kind of application: WinForms is a Winforms
application running on Quartz;  X11 is an application that requires
the X11 server to run;  console is a non-graphical application;  cocoa
is an application based on Cocoa#
.Sp
.I "-n NAME"
or
.I "-appname:NAME"
.Sp
This option specifies the application name of the emitted bundle.
This is what you will see in Finder.
.Sp
.I "-o DIRECTORY"
or
.I "-output:DIRECTORY"
.Sp
This option specifies the path to output the generated Application.
.Sp
.I "-r RESOURCE"
or 
.I "-resource:RESOURCE"
.Sp
This option can be specified multiple times.  It will place a copy of each resource
into the bundles resources directory.  Alternatively, you can use a
comma separated list of resources.
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Geoff Norton
.SH WEB SITE
Visit: http://www.mono-project.com for details
