.\" 
.\" mdoc-export-html manual page.
.\" (C) 2008 Novell, Inc.
.\" Author:
.\"   Jonathan Pryor (jpryor@novell.com)
.\"
.de Sp \" Vertical space (when we can't use .PP)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.TH "mdoc-export-html" 1
.SH NAME
mdoc export-html \- Convert \fBmdoc\fR(5) XML to HTML.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmdoc export-html\fR [OPTION]* DIRECTORIES
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmdoc export-html\fR creates HTML files from the \fBmdoc\fR(5)-formatted
documentation XML files within \fIDIRECTORIES\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-default\-template
Writes the default XSLT used to \fIstdout\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-ext\fR=\fIEXTENSION\fR
The file extension to use for created files.
.Sp
This defaults to \fIhtml\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-force-update\fR
Always generate new files.  If not specified, 
will only generate a new output file if the source 
documentation file is newer than the target output file.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-out\fR=\fIDIRECTORY\fR
Write the created files within directory \fIDIRECTORY\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-template\fR=\fIFILE\fR
An XSLT file to use to generate the created files.
.Sp
If not specified, uses the template produced by \fI\-\-dump\-template\fR.
.Sp
See the \fITEMPLATE FORMAT\fR section below for more information.
.TP
\fB\-\-with\-profile\fR=\fIPROFILE\fR
Only process types and members within the .NET profile \fIPROFILE\fR.  
May be specified multiple times.  If not specified, all types and members,
regardless of version, are processed.
.Sp
Valid profiles are:
.nf
	monotouch
	net_1_0
	net_1_1
	net_2_0
	net_3_0
	net_3_5
	net_4_0
	silverlight
.fi
.TP
\fB\-\-with\-version\fR=\fIVERSION\fR
Only process types and members within the assembly version \fIVERSION\fR.
May be specified multiple times.  If not specified, all types and members,
regardless of version, are processed.
.Sp
\fIVERSION\fR is an assembly version, e.g. 2.0.5.0.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display a help message and exit.
.SH TEMPLATE FORMAT
The template file is an XSLT which needs to process the following input XML
document:
.nf

  <Page>
    <CollectionTitle>Collection Title</CollectionTitle>
    <PageTitle>Page Title</PageTitle>
    <Summary>Page Summary</Summary>
    <Signature>Type Declaration</Signature>
    <Remarks>Type Remarks</Remarks>
    <Members>Type Members</Members>
    <Copyright>Documentation Copyright</Copyright>
  </Page>

.fi
The generated HTML also makes use of several CSS classes.  You can either use
the \fIcreate-default-style\fR named template found within the
\fI\-\-default\-template\fR output to generate these classes, or explicitly 
define the following CSS classes:
.RS
.ne 8
.TP
.I .CollectionTitle
.TP
.I .PageTitle
.TP
.I .Summary
.TP
.I .Signature
.TP
.I .Remarks
.TP
.I .Members
.TP
.I .Copyright
.TP
.I .Section
.TP
.I .SectionBox
.TP
.I .NamespaceName
.TP
.I .NamespaceSummary
.TP
.I .MemberName
.TP
.I .MemberSignature
.TP
.I .MemberBox
.TP
.I .Subsection
.TP
.I .SubsectionBox
.TP
.I .SignatureTable
.TP
.I .EnumerationsTable
.TP
.I .CodeExampleTable
.TP
.I .MembersListing
.TP
.I .TypesListing
.TP
.I .InnerSignatureTable
.TP
.I .TypePermissionsTable
.ne
.RE
.PP
.SH HTML LINKS
All members within the HTML file have an \fIid\fR 
attribute to permit linking to a specific member.  The value of the 
\fIid\fR attribute is the String ID of the specified member.
.PP
See the \fICREF FORMAT\fR section of \fBmdoc\fR(5) for more information.
.SH MAILING LISTS
.TP
Visit http://lists.ximian.com/mailman/listinfo/mono-docs-list for details.
.SH WEB SITE
Visit http://www.mono-project.com/docs/tools+libraries/tools/mdoc/ for details
