.\" 
.\" monodocs2html manual page.
.\" (C) 2006 Jonathan Pryor
.\" Author:
.\"   Jonathan Pryor (jonpryor@vt.edu)
.\"
.de Sp \" Vertical space (when we can't use .PP)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.TH "monodocs2html" 1
.SH NAME
monodocs2html \- Translate Monodoc XML to HTML
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B monodocs2html 
\-source:SOURCE_DIR \-dest:DEST_DIR
[OPTIONS]*
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fImonodocs2html\fR has been obsoleted by \fBmdoc\fR(1).  See the
\fBmdoc-export-html\fR(1) man page.
.PP
.I monodocs2html
is a program that creates HTML documentation from the Monodoc documentation
XML files.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-dest:DEST_DIR
Write the HTML files into the directory
.I DEST_DIR
\&.
.TP
.I \-dumptemplate
Dump the default page template to standard output so that you can use it as a
base for a new template for use with the 
.I \-template
option.
.TP
.I \-ext:FILE_EXTENSION
.I FILE_EXTENSION
is the file extension for generated files.
.Sp
This defaults to
.I html
\&.
.TP
.I \-?, \-help
Show program argument information.
.TP
.I \-onlytype:TYPE
Only generate HTML for the type
.I TYPE
\&.
.TP
.I \-source:SOURCE_DIR
.I SOURCE_DIR
is the base directory containing the Monodoc XML documentation.
.Sp
This directory should contain an
.I index.xml
file, the
.I namespace-name.xml
files (one for each namespace), and
.I namespace-name
directories (one for each namespace), which will contain the 
.I type.xml
files holding the monodoc documentation.
.TP
.I \-template:TEMPLATE
Generate HTML using the page template
.I TEMPLATE
\&.
.TP
.I \-V, \-version
Display version and licensing information.
.SH TEMPLATE FORMAT
The template file is an XSLT which needs to process the following input XML
document:
.nf
	<Page>
	  <CollectionTitle>Collection Title</CollectionTitle>
	  <PageTitle>Page Title</PageTitle>
	  <Summary>Page Summary</Summary>
	  <Signature>Type Declaration</Signature>
	  <Remarks>Type Remarks</Remarks>
	  <Members>Type Members</Members>
	  <Copyright>Documentation Copyright</Copyright>
	</Page>
.fi
The generated HTML also makes use of the following CSS classes, which should
be defined so that output is nicely formatted:
.RS
.ne 8
.TP
.I .CollectionTitle
.TP
.I .PageTitle
.TP
.I .Summary
.TP
.I .Signature
.TP
.I .Remarks
.TP
.I .Members
.TP
.I .Copyright
.TP
.I .Section
.TP
.I .SectionBox
.TP
.I .NamespaceName
.TP
.I .NamespaceSummary
.TP
.I .MemberName
.TP
.I .MemberSignature
.TP
.I .MemberBox
.TP
.I .Subsection
.TP
.I .SubsectionBox
.TP
.I .SignatureTable
.TP
.I .EnumerationsTable
.TP
.I .CodeExampleTable
.TP
.I .MembersListing
.TP
.I .TypesListing
.TP
.I .InnerSignatureTable
.TP
.I .TypePermissionsTable
.ne
.RE
.SH HTML LINKS
All members within the HTML file have a
.I id
attribute to permit linking to a specific member.  The value of the 
.I id
attribute is the String ID of the specified member.
See the 
.B STRING ID FORMAT
section of the 
.B monodocer
man page for more information.
.SH MAILING LISTS
.TP
Visit http://lists.ximian.com/mailman/listinfo/mono-docs-list for details.
.SH WEB SITE
Visit http://www.mono-project.com for details
