.\" 
.\" mono-service manual page.
.\" (C) 2005 Novell, Inc. 
.\" Author:
.\"   Miguel de Icaza (miguel@gnu.org)
.\"
.de Sp \" Vertical space (when we can't use .PP)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.TH Mono "mono-service"
.SH NAME
mono-service, mono-service2 \- Mono ServiceProcess host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B mono-service [options] program.exe
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fImono-service\fP is a host to run services built with the
ServiceProcess assembly.
.PP
Use \fImono-service\fP to run services that use the 1.0 assemblies and
use \fImono-service2\fP to run services that use the 2.0 assemblies.
.PP
Services can be paused by sending the SIGUSR1 signal to the process,
and execution can be resumed by sending the SIGUSR2 signal.   The
service can be cleanly shutdown by sending the SIGTERM signal to the
process. 
.PP
The following options can be used to control the service:
.TP
.I "-d:DIRECTORY"
Use this option to specify the working directory for the service.  The
default is the current directory. 
.TP
.I "-l:LOCKFILE"
Specifies the file to use for locking, the default is a filename
constructed in /tmp based on the name of the program that hosts the
service. 
.TP
.I "-m:MESSAGE"
Name to show in the syslog.
.TP
.I "-n:NAME"
Use this to specify the service to be launched (if the program
contains more than one service).   The default is to run the first
defined service.
.TP
.I "--debug"
Use this option to prevent mono-service from redirecting stdin and
stdout and prevent the program to be sent to the background.
Equivalent to --no-daemon
.TP
.I "--no-daemon"
Use this option to prevent mono-service from redirecting stdin and
stdout and prevent the program to be sent to the background.
Equivalent to --debug.
.SH CONTROL
You can control the service by sending signals to the process, you can
use the following commands:
.TP
Pausing service:
.nf
	kill -USR1 `cat <lock file>`
.fi
.TP
Resuming service:
.nf
	kill -USR2 `cat <lock file>`
.fi
.TP
Stopping the service:
.nf
	kill `cat <lock file>`
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
Start the MyService.exe assembly, with a lock in /root/service-lock:
.nf

	mono-service -l:/root/service-lock MyService.exe

.fi
.SH DEBUGGING
Messages produced by the service are logged on syslog.
.SH MAILING LISTS
Visit http://lists.ximian.com/mailman/listinfo/mono-list for details.
.SH WEB SITE
Visit: http://www.mono-project.com for details
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mono(1)
.PP
.BR N:System.ServiceProcess

