.TH "monop" 1
.SH NAME
monop, monop2 \- Mono Class Outline Viewer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B monop
[-r:assembly] [--search] class
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-r:assembly
Specifies the assembly to use for looking up the type
.TP
.I \-a
Renders all of the types in the specified assembly.
.TP
.I \-\-search, \-s, \-k
Searches through all known assemblies for types containing `class'.
.TP
.I \-\-refs
Prints a list of the referenced assemblies for an assembly.
Requires an assembly to be specified with -r:assembly.
.TP
.I \-\-filter-obsolete, \-f
Do not show obsolete types and members.
.TP
.I \-\-declared-only, \-d
Only show members declared in the type.
.TP
.I \-\-private, \-p
Show private members.
.TP
.I \-\-runtime\-version
Print runtime version.
.TP
.I \-xa
Sets the lookup path to the Xamarin.Android directory.   This will
load both the mscorlib from there, and search assemblies in that directory.
.TP
.I \-xi
Sets the lookup path to the Xamarin.iOS directory. This will
load both the mscorlib from there, and search assemblies in that directory.
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
Monop is a tool that allows you to view the outline of a class. You can see the
signature of each member of the class.   Use \fImonop\fP to explore 1.0
assemblies, use \fImonop2\fP to explore 2.0 assemblies.
.PP
The tool takes one option, the class to view. You must specify the full name of the
class, including namespace.
.PP
For generic classes, you must specify the generic arguments, for
example:
.nf
monop2 'System.Collections.Generic.List`1'
.fi
The above is the string representation for the List<T> in System.Collections.Generic
.PP
If you are unsure of the full name of the class, you can use the
`--search' option to search through all known assemblies.
.PP
.SH MAILING LISTS
Visit http://lists.ximian.com/mailman/listinfo/mono-devel-list for details.
.SH WEB SITE
Visit http://www.mono-project.com for details
