.\" 
.\" mozroots man page
.\" (C) 2005 Novell, Inc. 
.\" Authors:
.\"   Miguel de Icaza (miguel@gnu.org)
.\"   Sebastien Pouliot  <sebastien@ximian.com>
.\"
.de Sp \" Vertical space (when we can't use .PP)
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.TH Mono "MozRoots"
.SH NAME
mozroots \- Download and import trusted root certificates from Mozilla's LXR into Mono's certificate store
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B mozroots [--import [--machine] [--sync | --ask | --ask-add | --ask-remove]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program downloads the trusted root certificates from the Mozilla
LXR web site into the Mono certificate store.  
.PP
Mono by default does not ship with any default certificates and allows
the user to pick its trusted certificates.  The mozroots command will
bring the Mozilla certificates into your local machine. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I "--import"
Import the certificates into the trust store.
.TP
.I "--sync"
Synchronize (add/remove) the trust store with the certificates.
Synchronize is useful for new Mono installations (no roots) and for
automated updates (no user confirmation for addition or removal).
.TP
.I "--ask"
Always confirm before adding or removing trusted certificates.
.B Note:
The initial import will likely add about 100 new trusted root
certificates into your store. You'll have to answer
.B yes
to every one of them if this option is specified.
.TP
.I "--ask-add"
Always confirm before adding a new trusted certificate.
.B Note:
The initial import will likely add about 100 new trusted root
certificates into your store. You'll have to answer
.B yes
to every one of them if this option is specified.
.TP
.I "--ask-remove"
Always confirm before removing an existing trusted certificate.
.SH ADVANCED OPTIONS
.TP
.I "--url url"
Specify an alternative URL for downloading the trusted certificates
(LXR source format). This should only be useful for testing or if 
the Mozilla's LXR web site address is changed. It can also be used
to cache a local copy of the LXR file into your local intranet.
.TP
.I "--file name"
Do not download from LXR but use the specified file. This is useful
if many computers have to download the same file from the Internet.
This way you can keep a local copy on a file server (and minimize
network traffic).
.TP
.I "--pkcs7 name"
Export the certificates into a PKCS#7 file. This is useful for 
debugging purpose or for re-importing the same list into other 
software.
.TP
.I "--machine"
Import the certificate in the machine trust store. The default is to
import all trusted root certificates into the current user store.
.TP
.I "--quiet"
Limit console output to errors and confirmations messages. This is
useful when scripting.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
After the initial Mono installation you'll have no trusted roots 
certificates pre-installed. 
Neither will you have some root test certificates installed (your own
or the ones provided by using 
.B setreg
). In this case the simplest thing to do, if you want to trust all 
those certificates, is to import and synchronize.
.nf
	$ mozroots --import --sync
	Mozilla Roots Importer - version 1.1.9.0
	Download and import trusted root certificates from Mozilla's LXR.
	Copyright 2002, 2003 Motus Technologies. Copyright 2004-2005 Novell. BSD licensed.
 
	Downloading from 'http://lxr.mozilla.org/seamonkey/source/security/nss/lib/ckfw/builtins/certdata.txt'...
	Importing certificates into user store...
	93 new root certificates were added to your trust store.
	Import process completed.
.fi
.PP
If you created some test certificates (e.g. for using SSL/TLS with XSP)
and/or if your enterprise requires some additional root certificates
(e.g. intranet) then you may want to skip the removal part of the 
process. You can do this by asking for a removal confirmation 
(--ask-remove option) and answer no when prompted.
.nf
	$ mozroots --import --ask-remove
	Mozilla Roots Importer - version 1.1.9.0
	Download and import trusted root certificates from Mozilla's LXR.
	Copyright 2002, 2003 Motus Technologies. Copyright 2004-2005 Novell. BSD licensed.
 
	Downloading from 'http://lxr.mozilla.org/seamonkey/source/security/nss/lib/ckfw/builtins/certdata.txt'...
	Importing certificates into user store...
	93 new root certificates were added to your trust store.
	2 previously trusted certificates were not part of the update.

	Issuer: CN=Mono Test Root Agency
	Serial number: 69-B0-E1-4F-88-6E-C7-85-48-0E-74-91-38-76-F4-28
	Valid from 9/1/2003 11:55:48 AM to 12/31/2039 1:59:59 PM
	Thumbprint SHA-1: EF-26-C2-28-11-3F-79-ED-9D-EC-3F-3B-D5-7A-26-F2-7C-9F-FA-63
	Thumbprint MD5:   AE-19-3E-64-36-21-F2-A4-8B-69-38-CA-64-4B-2E-62
	Are you sure you want to remove this certificate ? no
.PP
You can still use the synchronize option (--sync) if you have activated
the default test roots certificate on your system. They will be removed
at the end of the synchronization process but you can quickly add them 
back with the
.B setreg
tool.
.nf
	$ setreg 1 true
.fi
.PP
Another option to ease updates is to synchronize your machine trust store
(using the --machine option) and keep your customized (test) certificates
in your personal store (or vice versa). Note that every user on this 
computer will be trusting all the newly imported certificates.
.nf
	$ mozroots --import --machine --sync
	Mozilla Roots Importer - version 1.1.9.0
	Download and import trusted root certificates from Mozilla's LXR.
	Copyright 2002, 2003 Motus Technologies. Copyright 2004-2005 Novell. BSD licensed.
 
	Downloading from 'http://lxr.mozilla.org/seamonkey/source/security/nss/lib/ckfw/builtins/certdata.txt'...
	Importing certificates into user store...
	94 new root certificates were added to your trust store.
	Import process completed.
.fi
.PP
Once the initial import is complete the number of changes (additions or 
removals) is generally very low. In this case it makes sense to know 
about any changes (i.e. ask for confirmation). No confirmation will be
required if no changes are made to your trust store.
.nf
	$ mozroots --import --ask
	Mozilla Roots Importer - version 1.1.9.0
	Download and import trusted root certificates from Mozilla's LXR.
	Copyright 2002, 2003 Motus Technologies. Copyright 2004-2005 Novell. BSD licensed.
 
	Downloading from 'http://lxr.mozilla.org/seamonkey/source/security/nss/lib/ckfw/builtins/certdata.txt'...
	Importing certificates into user store...
	Import process completed.
.fi
.SH FILES
.PP
~/.config/.mono/certs, /usr/share/.mono/certs
.PP
Contains Mono certificate stores for users / machine. See the certmgr(1) 
manual page for more information on managing certificate stores.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2005 Novell. 
.SH MAILING LISTS
Mailing lists are listed at the
http://www.mono-project.com/community/help/mailing-lists/
.SH WEB SITE
http://www.mono-project.com
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mono(1), certmgr(1). setreg(1)
