.\" 
.\" permview manual page.
.\" Copyright (C) 2004-2007 Novell, Inc (http://www.novell.com)
.\" Author:
.\"   Sebastien Pouliot (sebastien@ximian.com)
.\"
.TH Mono "permview"
.SH NAME
permview \- Viewer for declarative security permission sets inside assemblies.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B permview [options] assembly
.SH DESCRIPTION
This tools allow to list the declarative security attributes present in
an assembly. The security attributes are either found on the assembly level,
on the classes and the methods. This tool is useful to diagnose why an 
assembly won't load or why some class/method throws SecurityException.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I -output filename
Output all declarative security attributes related informations into the
specified file.
.TP
.I -xml | --xml | /XML
Output all declarative security attributes in an XML format.
.TP
.I -decl | --decl | /DECL
Show declarative security attributes on classes and methods. The default,
without the
.B -decl
option, is to show only the assembly level permission sets.
.TP
.I -? | /? | -h[elp] | /h[elp]
Display help informations about the permview tool.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.I permview mscorlib.dll
This will show the minimum, optional and refused permissions sets (i.e. the assembly
level security actions) that are compiled inside the mscorlib assembly.
.TP
.I permview -decl permview.exe
This will show all (assembly, class or method level) declarative security 
attributes present in the permview.exe assembly.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Sebastien Pouliot
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Novell, Inc (http://www.novell.com)
.SH MAILING LISTS
Visit http://lists.ximian.com/mailman/listinfo/mono-devel-list for details.
.SH WEB SITE
Visit http://www.mono-project.com for details
