.TH sqlsharp 1 "9 September 2008"
.SH NAME 
sqlsharp \- Mono SQL Query command-line tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sqlsharp 
[\-f filename] [\-o filename] [\-s]
.SH DESCRIPTION
sqlsharp is a Mono SQL tool used for entering SQL queries
to a database using Mono data providers.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.TP
.I "-f filename"
Output file to load SQL commands from.
.TP
.I "-o filename"
Output file to send results.
.TP
.I "-s"
Silent mode.
.PP
.SH HOW TO USE
The SQL tool accepts commands via its command line interface.  Commands
begin with a backslash followed by the command name.
.PP
Example:
.nf
	\\open

.fi
.PP
Basically, there are five commands a user should know:
	\\provider, \\connectionstring, \\open, \\quit, and \\help
.PP	
To connect to a database, you need to do the following:
.PP
1. set your data provider via \\provider
.PP
.nf
	Example:
		SQL# \\provider mysql
		
.fi
.PP
2. set your connection string via \\connectionstring
.PP
.nf
	Example:
		SQL# \\connectionstring Database=test
		
.fi
.PP		
3. open a connection to the database via \\open
.PP
.nf
	Example:
		SQL# \\open
		
.fi
.PP
.SH CONNECTION AND PROVIDER COMMANDS
These commands are used to setup the provider, 
connection string, and open/close the database connnection
.TP
.I "ConnectionString"
Sets the Connection String
.nf

Example:
	SQL# \\ConnectionString Database=testdb
	or
	SQL# \\cs Database=testdb

For more examples, see section CONNECTION STRING EXAMPLES.

.fi
.TP
.I "Provider"
Sets the Provider of the Data Source.  For list of Providers, see section PROVIDERS.
.nf
	
Example: to set the provider for MySQL:
	SQL# \\provider mysql
           or
	SQL# \\p mysql
		
Note: if you need to load an external provider in SQL#, 
      see the SQL# command \\loadextprovider 
      
.fi
.TP
.I "ListProviders"
List ADO.NET 2.0 Providers available
.nf

Example:
	SQL# \\ListProviders 
	   or
	SQL# \\listp

.fi
.TP
.I "BCS"
Prompts you for building each connection parameter and builds the connection string
and also allows you to enter a password wich does not echo.
.nf

Example:
	SQL# \\bcs

	ConnectionString Option: Data Source [] SQL# blazer

	ConnectionString Option: Persist Security Info [False] SQL# 

	ConnectionString Option: Integrated Security [False] SQL# 

	ConnectionString Option: User ID [] SQL# scott

	Password: *****

	ConnectionString Option: Enlist [False] SQL# 

	ConnectionString Option: Pooling [True] SQL# 

	ConnectionString Option: Min Pool Size [0] SQL# 

	ConnectionString Option: Max Pool Size [100] SQL# 

	ConnectionString Option: Unicode [False] SQL# 

	ConnectionString Option: Load Balance Timeout [0] SQL# 

	ConnectionString Option: Omit Oracle Connection Name [False] SQL# 
	ConnectionString is set.	

.fi
.TP
.I "LoadExtProvider"
ASSEMBLY CLASS to load an external provider.  Use the complete name 
of its assembly and its Connection class.
.nf

Example: to load the MySQL provider Mono.Data.MySql
	SQL# \\loadextprovider Mono.Data.MySql Mono.Data.MySql.MySqlConnection

.fi
.TP
.I "Open"
Opens a connection to the database
.nf

Example:
	SQL# \\open

.fi
.TP
.I "Close"
Closes the connection to the database
.nf

Example:
	SQL# \\close

.fi
.TP
.I "Default"
show default variables, such as, Provider and ConnectionString.
.nf

Example:
	SQL# \\defaults

.fi
.TP
.I "Q"
Quit
.nf

Example:
	SQL# \\q

.fi
.SH SQL EXECUTION COMMANDS
Commands to execute SQL statements
.PP
.TR
.I "e"
execute SQL query (SELECT)
.nf

Example: to execute a query
	
	SQL# SELECT * FROM EMPLOYEE
	SQL# \\e

Note: to get \\e to automatically work after entering a query, put a
      semicolon ; at the end of the query.
	      
Example: to enter and exectue query at the same time

	SQL# SELECT * FROM EMPLOYEE;

.fi
.TP
.I "exenonquery"
execute a SQL non query (not a SELECT)
.nf

Example: to insert a row into a table:
	
	SQL# INSERT INTO SOMETABLE (COL1, COL2) VALUES('ABC','DEF')
	SQL# \\exenonquery
		
Note: this can be used for those providers that are new and do not have
      the ability to execute queries yet.      

.fi
.TP
.I "exescalar" 
execute SQL to get a single row and single column.
.nf

Example: to execute a Maxium aggregate
		SQL# SELECT MAX(grade) FROM class
		SQL# \\exescalar	

.fi
.TP
.I "exexml"
FILENAME to execute SQL and save output to XML file
.nf

Example: 
	SQL# SELECT fname, lname, hire_date FROM employee
	SQL# \\exexml employee.xml
		
Note: this depends on DataAdapter, DataTable, and DataSet
      to be working properly

.fi
.TP
.SH FILE COMMANDS
Commands for importing commands from file to SQL# and vice versa
.TP
.I "f"
FILENAME to read a batch of SQL# commands from file
.nf

Example:
	SQL# \\f batch.sql#
		
Note: the SQL# commands are interpreted as they are read.  If there is
      any SQL statements, the are executed.

.fi
.TP
.I "o"
FILENAME to write result of commands executed to file.
.nf

Example:
	SQL# \\o result.txt

.fi
.TP
.I "load"
FILENAME to load from file SQL commands into SQL buffer.
.nf

Example:
	SQL# \\load commands.sql

.fi
.TP
.I "save"
FILENAME to save SQL commands from SQL buffer to file.

.nf
Example:
	SQL# \\save commands.sql

.fi
.SH GENERAL PURPOSE COMMANDS
General commands to use.
.TP
.I "h"
show help (all commands).
.nf

Example:
	SQL# \\h

.fi
.TP
.I "s"
TRUE, FALSE to silent messages.
.nf

Example 1:
	SQL# \\s true
		
Example 2:
	SQL# \\s false

.fi
.TP
.I "r"
reset or clear the query buffer.
.nf

Example:
	SQL# \\r

.fi
.TP
.I "print"
show what's in the SQL buffer now.
.nf

Example:
	SQL# \\print

.fi
SH VARIABLES WHICH CAN BE USED AS PARAMETERS
Commands to set variables which can be used as Parameters in an SQL statement.  If the
SQL contains any parameters, the parameter does not have a variable set, the 
user will be prompted for the value for each missing parameter.
.TP
.I "set"
NAME VALUE to set an internal variable.
.nf

Example:
	SQL# \\set sFirstName John

.fi
.TP
.I "unset"
NAME to remove an internal variable.
.nf

Example:
	SQL# \\unset sFirstName

.fi
.TP
.I "variable"
NAME to display the value of an internal variable.
.nf

Example:
	SQL# \\variable sFirstName

.fi
.SH PROVIDER SUPPORT OPTIONS
Enable or Disble support for a particular provider option
.TP
.I "UseParameters"
TRUE,FALSE to use parameters when executing SQL which
use the variables that were set.
.PP                 
If this option is true, the SQL
contains parameters, and for each parameter
which does not have a SQL# variable set, the
user will be prompted to enter the value
For that parameter.
.nf

Example:
	SQL# \\useparameter true

.fi
.PP		
Default: false
.TP
.I "UseSimpleReader"
TRUE,FALSE to use simple reader when displaying results.
.nf

Example:
	SQL# \\usesimplereader true

.fi
.PP		
Default: false.  Mostly, this is dependent on the provider.  If the provider
does not have enough of IDataReader implemented to have
the normal reader working, then the simple reader can be used.
Providers like SqlClient, MySQL, and PostgreSQL have this
ption defaulting to true.
.PP
.SH PROVIDERS
.nf

PROVIDER   NAME          NAMESPACE                  ASSEMBLY

oracle     Oracle 8i-11g System.Data.OracleClient   System.Data.OracleClient
postgresql NetPostgreSQL Npgsql                     Npgsql
bytefx     ByteFX MySQL  ByteFX.Data.MySqlClient    ByteFX.Data
sqlclient  MS SQL 7-2008 System.Data.SqlClient      System.Data
odbc       ODBC          System.Data.Odbc           System.Data
sqlite     SQL Lite      Mono.Data.SqliteClient     Mono.Data.SqliteClient
sybase     Sybase        Mono.Data.SybaseClient     Mono.Data.SybaseClient
firebird   Firebird SQL  FirebirdSql.Data.FirebirdSql FirebirdSql.Data.Firebird
mysql      MySQL AB      MySql.Data.MySqlClient     MySql.Data

NOTES:

Ngsql is the .Net Data Provider for PosgreSQL.  The
latest version can be downloaded from
http://npgsql.projects.postgresql.org/

MySql.Data is the MySQL Connector/Net for connecting to MySql databases.
For MySQL, it is strongly recommend to use MySql.Data instead of the old
ByteFX.Data provider.  Unfortunately, MySql.Data is not included with Mono.
You can download the latest MySQL Connector/Net from MySQL AB at
http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/

FirebirdSql.Data.Firebird can be downloaded from here:
http://www.firebirdsql.org/index.php?op=files&id=netprovider

.fi
.SH CONNECTION STRING SAMPLES
Example connection strings for various providers to be used via the
command \\ConnectionString
.nf

Example of usage:
	\\connectionstring Database=testdb


Connection String examples:


Microsoft SQL Server via System.Data.SqlClient 

	Server=DANPC;Database=pubs;User ID=saPassword=;

	For Integrated Security, bear in mind that Mono is not
	integrated with Windows, SQL Server client nor server, nor
	Windows Server.  Therefore, you must provide the Windows Domain
	name and domain user name and password for this user.

	Server=DANPC;Database=pubs;User ID=DOMAIN\user;Password=pass;Integrated Security=SSPI

	For a server locally, you can use localhost.
	
ODBC via System.Data.Odbc provider using 
a DSN named "MSSQLDSN"	I set up 
in the Windows control panel's ODBC Data Sources 
which connects to Microsoft SQL Server 2000:

	DSN=MSSQLDSN;UID=danmorg;PWD=freetds

To use ODBC ON Unix, consider unixODBC from http://www.unixodbc.org/
or use iODBC from http://www.iodbc.org/

SQL Lite via Mono.Data.SqliteClient 
provider which connects to the
database file SqliteTest.db; if not found, 
the file is created:

	URI=file:SqliteTest.db

Oracle via System.Data.OracleClient

	Data Source=testdb;User ID=scott;Password=tiger

        If you prefer to not use a tnsnames.ora file, you can 
	use a connection string which allows a
	TNS network description that is parentheses delimited
	like the following which has the host, port, and
	service name.  For host, you can specify an IP address
        instead of a hostname.

User ID=SCOTT;
Password=TIGER;
Data Source=(DESCRIPTION=(ADDRESS=(PROTOCOL=TCP)(HOST=192.168.1.101)(PORT=1521))(CONNECT_DATA=(SERVER=DEDICATED)(SERVICE_NAME=TESTDB)))

		
Npgsql (.NET PostgreSQL) from 
http://gborg.postgresql.org/project/npgsql/projdisplay.php

	Server=localhost;Database=test;User ID=postgres;Password=fun2db

		
ByteFX (ByteFX MySQL) from 

	Please use MySql.Data instead.

	Server=localhost;Database=test;User ID=mysql;Password=


FirebirdSql via FirebirdSql.Data.Firebird (download latest form FirebirdSql.org)

	Database=C:\\FIREBIRD\\EXAMPLES\\EMPLOYEE.FDB;User=SYSDBA;Password=masterkey;Dialect=3;Server=localhost


MySQL via (MySql.Data) MySQL Connector/Net from http://www.mysql.com/

	Server=localhost;Database=test;User ID=mysql;Password=mypass;Pooling=false


.fi
.SH TRACING SUPPORT
No support for tracing right now.
.SH AUTHORS
The Mono SQL Query Tool was written 
.nf
by Daniel Morgan <monodanmorg@yahoo.com>
.fi
.PP
.SH LICENSE
The Mono SQL Query Tool is released under the terms of the GNU GPL.
Please read the accompanying `COPYING' file for details.  Alternative
licenses are available from Novell or Daniel Morgan.
.SH BUGS
To report bugs in the compiler, you can
file bug reports in our bug tracking system:
.nf
https://github.com/mono/mono/issues
.fi
.PP
.SH MAILING LISTS
For details, visit:
.nf
http://lists.ximian.com/mailman/listinfo/mono-devel-list
.fi
.SH WEB SITE
For details, visit: 
.nf
http://www.mono-project.com 
.fi
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
mono(1)

