.\"
.\" wsdl manual page.
.\" (C) 2003 Novell, Inc.
.\" Author:
.\"   Lluis Sanchez Gual (lluis@ximian.com)
.\"
.TH wsdl 1
.SH NAME
wsdl \- Mono's Web Service Proxy Generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B wsdl
[options] [path | url]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I wsdl
is a tool for generating proxy classes that can be used to access to
web services.  The tool reads a WSDL document from the provided path
or url, and downloads referenced schemas or other WSDL documents if
needed.
.PP
This tool is used to target the 1.x API, for targetting the 2.x API,
please use the wsdl2 tool.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are available:
.TP
.I "-appsettingurlkey:key" "-urlkey:key"
Specifies that the url for the services should be read from the <appsettings> section
of the configuration file, using the provided key.
.TP
.I "-appsettingbaseurl:url", "-baseurl:url"
Specifies a base URL for the service. The final URL will be constructed by
combining this value with the URL read from the
.I -appsettingurlkey
option, and the 
.I "-type:typename, assembly"
Generate a proxy for a compiled web service class. The URL parameter
can be used to providethe location of the service.
.I location
attribute specified in the WSDL document.
.TP
.I "-language:language", "-l"
Language of the code to generate. It can be CS for C# (default), Boo
for Boo and VB for Visual.Basic.
.TP
Alternatively you can specify a full type name for a CodeProvider, for
example, you could use this to generate code for the imaginary "MyLan"
language which has the following full type:
.nf
	wsdl myservice.wsdl -language:MyLan.MyLanCodeProvider, MyLan.CodeDom, Version=1.0.0.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=xxyy'
.fi
.TP
.I "-namespace:name", "-n:name"
The namespace of the generated classes. If none is specified, the default
namespace is used.
.TP
.I "-out:filename", "-o:filename"
The target file for generated code.
.TP
.I "-protocol:protocol", "-p:protocol"
The protocol for which to generate code. It can be Soap (default), HttpGet or
HttpPost.
.TP
.I "-sample:METHOD"
This will display XML request and reply of the sample invocations to
that SOAP message.  You can use the -protocol: option to render the
message in different forms.
.TP
.I "-server"
Generate a server skeleton instead of a client proxy.
.TP
.I "-nologo"
Supress the startup logo.
.TP
.I "-u:username", "-user:username"
The user name to use when connecting to the server.
.TP
.I "-p:password", "-password:password"
The password to use when connecting to the server.
.TP
.I "-d:domain", "-domain:domain"
The domain to use when connecting to the server.
.PP
.SH AUTHORS
Lluis Sanchez Gual (lluis@ximian.com)
.PP
.SH LICENSE
wsdl is released under the terms of the GNU GPL.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
disco(1), soapsuds(1), mono(1), mcs(1), wsdl2(1)
